# Import / Export

This chapter describes how files can be used to avoid introducing data manually

## All data

To import there is used `qif2json`, to export `qif-ts`, both these packages are modified by author of this software and
stored in monorepo to provide support for currencies that was added as extension to `qif` format that formally do not
care about currency.

Our qif export is constrained and does not contain all info about data saved by user, eg.: projects list is not
available to store in qif. Only used projects will be saved and restored correctly.

So recommended flow is importing `qif` from external apps and then store `json` as backups.

## Transactions for a given account

There is also independent import of `csv` / `json` for transactions to an existing account, but it not support transfers
between accounts and is designed to import data exported from banks.

There are the following steps:

1. If it is csv, then we display it as a table and try to assign our column names. You can modify this selection
   manually in UI for csv imports.

2. CSV is transformed to JSON input (or we're starting here if json was selected as file format)

3. Transactions are compared one by one with existing transactions, and we're looking for duplicated by date and amount.
   On this stage we assigning uid in `id` field of new transactions but not saving them to localestorege.

4. User is informed about the number of transactions that will be added, and if there are duplicated these duplicated
   are presented in UI next to each other, you have choice if:

- save data from import
- save data from your current app state

there is no option to create two transactions with the same date and amount from this export if one was existing before.

If no, then duplicated will not be detected, so this mechanism will no affect import on fresh accounts but only many
imports of the same data if these data exists.
